Introduction:
Subtitle:
Maker of simple first websites

Let me walk you through everything you 
need to know about the joys
and responsibilities of having a website:

Before your website comes to life:
Understand how the web works
Crash course in web technology
Hosting and domains
Costs
Choosing a designer
Choosing the right tool for managing your site.


After your website comes to life:
Where will your content come from?
Who will produce images?
Do you have a stylesheet for your blog?
Do you know the do's and don't of your CMS text interface?
How will you manage comments? *2 lines*
How much time to you want to devote to maintaining your site?
Who will maintain it? Owner, assistant, employee.
Do you need automatization, consistency?

Mid-life
Your site has stages of life and it is never static. Static means you don't update it. Not to confuse with a Static website which means you don't use a CMS but rather you make changes and update it through the code. But a website whose life is static is non existant. 

The life stages of  your new website.

Work with me:
I can work in French, English and Spanish.

Consultation:

If you decided you need a website for your business, proyect, event, etc. and especially if it's your first website, there are several things to consider that will save you a lot of times and probably a lot of headaches.


In one 90 minute session we can review the following:

Understand how the web works today.
Crash course in web technology, what does responsive mean, where will people visit from? with what? , how do I get this information? 
Hosting and domains
Costs
Choosing the right tool for managing your site.
Questions to ask to your developer or designer.
Why it's important to own your content and avoid silos.
Privacy so you can make better decisions about what to share and what not.
Following adivce - what is real and what is not about monetizing your site.
Best solutions for your budget and goals.

DID YOU KNOW KEY WORD SEARCH IS NO LONGER THE STANDARD?
SEO done right. How to choose a good SEO professional or where to find information to do it yourself.


Cost: $100

Website reviews:



Cost: $45
I will create a private video to document the things you can improve.




Website development
All website development includes a the consulting session.

Small semi-custom website or blog:
Starting at $1500
3 - 4 weeks

Blog plus four pages and one contact form.



Small custom website or blog:
Starting at $2500

4 - 5 weeks

Pro custom website

Starting at $4000 

6+ weeks depending on the scope of project.

Custom HTML newsletter.


What I don't do:

I don't do branding or any work that requires professional design services. I leave that to the true designers!
Here are a couple of Montreal based designers whose work I love.


I work with the Genesis Framework in WordPress.
And with Perch, the little content management system.

How tochoose which content management system is better suited for your needs?

If your website or business content will be driven by your blog.
If you will have more than one editor uploading content.
If you want to engage with your reader in the comments.
If your require additinal widgets or features.
if you are comfortable using a full featured CMS
...


If you want an extra-easy and intuitive way to manage your website
If you business does not require constant content updates
(For example: a yoga studio who welcomes a new instructor and needs to update the About us page or
a change of class schedule).

About Luisa

Is it important to mention I've been making websites since 1997? Probably.
I learned with a book and a very slow computer. The first thing I put online was my very own 'Homepage' with poems by Anne Sexton and Sylvia Plath, plus quotes from the tortured souls of the 90's grunge bands. Very dramatic stuff.

In 1999 I opened my first blog on Blogger. Back then you had the chance to publish your blog to your own server while still using the Blogger app. 
I had much fun desigining and re-desigining my blog sometimes five times in a year. 

In 2006 I moved to Montreal with the man of my life and I started searching for a new career. I wanted to do something different: I considered teaching, becoming a librarian, a dog groomer a breadmaker, anything but working in a large corporation. Finally I started to work at a bookstore and in a matter of weeks I became the web manager and a short time afterward the ecommerce manager.

In 2013 my husband and I started preparing for a sabbatical in 2014. I would lose my job and in a moment of panic I realized that all my experience and my skills lie in web devopment. 

Though I love the internet I have a more careful approach. I belive three things:
1. You have the own your content.
2. You are responsible for your privacy especially today.
3. The holograms of internet bliss are just holograms. The real work is done offline. When the power is out none of this exists. (reference).

With this in mind, I prefer to work with:
Open source or Bootsrapped businesses.
Are you curious why? Read here.

When I'm not coding websites I read and write. And I'm a compulsive learner. 
I publish two other blogs you can visit here and here. Sometimes I publish pieces in Spanish like this one.
I like to make bread.

I'm a fan of the underground, the new, the unknown, the people who make things for the sake of it. Between a magazine and a zine I will always choose the zine. I collect books by female British authors for their elegance and economy of language, sense of humour and because I love that in every single one of those books there is the inevitable scene of tea and scones.

By the way, if you must know, the best scones in Montreal are found at Rustique.
































